The following list contains feature history of the Editor from the first demo release in  January 2012.


What is new in .15926 Editor version 1.5beta (released on July 15, 2014):

1. Visual pattern editor with search capabilities; new open JSON format for pattern libraries.

2. Patterns are managed in the project as a new type of data source; pattern model extended. 

3. Major mapping and adapter prototyping demo for a plant process flow diagram - sample data with walk-through guide included with the documentation in dot15926AdapterSample.pdf file.

4. New Linked Data open-source extension packaged with web engine; start your own Linked Data server, delivering pattern-based representation of project and reference data (including PCA RDL) with semantic search.

5. Import of patterns from IIP TIPManger database (available from http://www.iringsandbox.org/bak/tips.mdb), generic patterns reconstruction for TIPs.

6. Pattern-based export to spreadsheet - easily managed reporting for RDF data.

7. Pattern-based adapters supported for external databases and services; refer to https://github.com/ailev/anird for sample adapters to Google Map and other APIs.

8. Turtle format fully supported, you can save .ttl files now.


Versions 1.41, 1.42, 1.43 - bugfixes.

What is new in .15926 Editor version 1.40 (released on February 23, 2014):

1. Spreadsheet mapping to patterns - powerful adapter extension to describe spreadsheet data model with patterns and transform spreadsheet data to ISO 15926 compliant RDF.

2. On-the-fly data model compliance verification for relational entities, typing and classification verification across the project.

3. More project-oriented features, including project-wide property and module name management.

4. Improved navigation for Part 2 data model - go from types to roles they are restricting; disjointness and membership restriction inheritance is inferred for the type tree.

5. Part 2 data model is enhanced with missing "can classify" relations; disjoint subclasses for AbstractObject and simplified subtyping for complete OtherRelationship model are added to facilitate unambiguous verification. 

6. Quick search expanded with URI search.

7. New pattern-based "engineering" view on reference and project data items, pattern visibility management for improved performance.

8. Pattern format enhancements, the Editor is ready for pattern library releases (coming soon).

9. Turtle file format support (read only).

10. Built-in UUID support for data entities created in Editor, direct access to UUID generator.

11. Documentation rearranged into several volumes for ease of use.

12. Complete Russian interface included


What is new in .15926 Editor version 1.31 (released on September 19, 2013):

1. Drag-n-drop project description files to change your project environment.

2. Explore template roles as OWL properties with one button.

3. Bugfixes. Please import or create anew any templates you've created with ver. 1.3, definitions weren't compliant to Part 8 OWL requirements.


What is new in .15926 Editor version 1.3 (released on September 10, 2013):

1. Change management for semantic data: comparison of data sources, building of a structural diff,  change review and acceptance.

2. Smart copy, cut and paste - context-aware entity and property transfer between data sources and easy transfer of text data to other applications.

3. Speed increase up to 5 times for loading of big data sources. Work with files compressed by GZIP without unpacking.

4. Removed restrictions for work with template definitions: uniform opening of data sources, search for template definition in all data sources, arbitrary relationships and properties are supported for templates.

5. Improved restriction control for specialized template definitions. 

6. SPARQL queries to remote endpoints available through Editor's console and are incorporated in SearchLan for use in scripts and extensions.  

7. Drag-n-drop files to the Project.

8. User-control of UUID prefix.

9. Software optimized for work with multiple projects and many data sources, including shortcuts to recently opened projects and sources. Project auto-save. 

10. Migration to a new interface library (PySide, Python binding to Qt) resulting in a new look and feel of the program and opening possibilities for future interface development.

11. Query examples, documentation and extensions adjusted for changed namespace in PCA RDL export file. Access to documentation from Editor menu.

12. Dropped support of Camelot template format (use older versions of the Editor to convert or contact us for help).

13. National language localization started, Russian interface included (incomplete).


What is new in .15926 Editor version 1.2 (released on February 21, 2013):

1. New implementation of patterns, including multi-role patterns and patterns with options. Pattern definitions are fully documented and open for further additions.

2. Enhanced pattern search functionality.

3. Projects can be saved and restored, preserving data source configuration and customized data source parameters (namespaces, properties, etc.).

4. New level of compliance to ISO 15926-8 requirements for RDF/OWL template format. If you've already used the Editor to define template signatures - please open your files and save them with the same name again, the format will be converted to the newest version.

5. Built-in recognition of template meta-model namespace.

6. Enhanced APIs of Scanner and Builder, allowing search and editing by all object and data properties at RDF level. 

7. Two new Scanner functions for search at SPARQL endpoint and search in data downloaded from endpoint (it is just the beginning).

8. Template creation functions are added to Builder API for template definitions conversion from proprietary formats. Open-source extension for import of template definitions from iRING Tools table format included.

9. Registration and creation of custom object properties for non-standard representation of relationships is allowed and their visualization is improved (the Editor can now be used as a general-purpose RDF/XML editing software if need arises).

10.User can cancel time-consuming queries and algorythms.

11. Query performance optimization.

12. Bugfixes.


What is new in .15926 Editor version 1.1 (released on November 19th 2012):

1. Open extension development - unlimited functionality enhancement through Python libraries and modules dynamically loaded by the Editor (allows user to create simple importers-exporters or complex mapping adaptors, reasoners, etc.).

2. Fully documented Builder API - creation of ISO 15926 data entities through console and extensions. 

3. Source code of built-in extensions and extension samples released under the BSD 2-Clause license.

4. Creation of multiple instances of rdf:type for classifications from RDL classes.

5. Added link to TechInvestLab.ru RDL sandbox http://rdl.techinvestlab.ru:8891/sparql . TabLan methodology and sample data linked to reference data from TechInvestLab.ru sandbox.

6. UUID generation corrected to achieve fuller compliance with RFC 4122 / ITU-T X.667 / ISO/IEC 9834-8  

7. Mistakes corrected in TabLan.15926 methodology and mapping.

8. Distributed as an archive or as an MS Windows installer.

9. Update check (manual).

10. Documentation enhancements and clarifications.

11. Numerous interface improvements and bugfixes.


What is new in .15926 Editor version 1.00 (released on September 30th 2012):

1. Integrated project environment replaces separate presets.

2. Customization of namespaces and annotation properties.

3. SearchLan.15926 query language for local data sources.

4. Pattern identification and search by patterns.

5. URI search for remote SPARQL endpoints, including search for legacy RDS/WIP identifiers.

6. Generation of URI from UUID compliant with RFC 4122 / ITU-T X.667 / ISO/IEC 9834-8

7. Built-in fully functional Python REPL console.

8. Import capability for JSON export from third party application.

9. Completely redesigned user interface for work with multiple data sources.

10. New documentation with walkthrough tutorials and methodological hints.

11. Compliance report included.


What is new in .15926 Editor version 0.87m (released on March 8th 2012):

1. Support for the "TabLan.15926  Data Mapping Specification" released on March 8th 2012 (available at http://techinvestlab.ru/TabLan)

2. Bugfix.


What is new in .15926 Editor version 0.87 (released on January 24th 2012):

1. Capability to add and edit template instances in preset Tablan.

2. Correct visualization of Same As data attribute.

3. Data source indication for data items viewed.

4. Reload of entities for interrupted SPARQL request.

5. Process interruption with window closure (mistake correction capability).

6. Capability to access password protected SPARQL endpoints.

7. URI dereferencing and web access for data model items and all data items.

8. Some usability tips and tricks in documentation.


